ci: tekton configurations for PR build pipeline (#679)
instana/go-sensor: .tekton/README.md

# Tekton CI for Instana Go Tracer

## Tekton Setup on a Cluster

- You need access to a cluster with full admin privileges.
- Allocate enough RAM and CPU so that all the pods, including sidecar pods, will run smoothly on a single node.
- Add multiple nodes to increase parallel pipeline runs.

### Tekton Setup

```sh

> # Install pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Tekton pipelines
```

kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/pipeline/latest/release.yaml

> # Install GitHub trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Tekton triggers
```

kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/triggers/latest/release.yaml

> # Install GitHub interceptor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Tekton interceptors
```

kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/triggers/latest/interceptors.yaml

> # Install dashboard - full installation is needed to make changes in the pipeline, such as re-running a pipeline run or deleting a pipeline run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Tekton dashboard - full installation is needed for read/write capabilities. eg: to make changes in the pipeline, such as re-running a pipeline run or deleting a pipeline run. 
```

kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/dashboard/latest/release-full.yaml

> # Monitor installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Can we keep this line ?

Author: Aah got it, will delete.

> # Make sure all pods are in the ready state before proceeding further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Make sure all pods are in the ready state before proceeding further by issuing the following command.
```

kubectl get pods --namespace tekton-pipelines --watch

# Access the dashboard
kubectl proxy
```

> - If you have successfully completed the above steps, you can access the Tekton Dashboard from [here](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/tekton-pipelines/services/tekton-dashboard:http/proxy/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have successfully completed the above mentioned steps, you should be able to access the Tekton Dashboard from [here](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/tekton-pipelines/services/tekton-dashboard:http/proxy/)
```

## Install Tekton pipelines for Go Tracer

> - You will find all the required YAML configurations in the `.tekton` folder on the go-tracer repo. This includes all the required tasks, pipelines, and GitHub triggers, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will find all the required YAML configurations in the `.tekton` folder, present in the root directory of the go-tracer repo. This includes all the required tasks, pipelines, and GitHub triggers, etc.
```

### Prerequisites before applying the YAML files

- You need to create three secrets to run the Go tracer pipelines:
    1. **GitHub bot token** - You need a GitHub bot token with write access to the repo. This is for sending commit statuses.
    2. **GitHub Webhook Secret** - Create a very long random secret. You need to add this to the GitHub UI when creating a webhook for PR events.
    3. **Cosmos URL and Secret** - This is for running azcosmos integration tests.

> - Once you have access to the above secrets, please replace them in the `secrets.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once you have access to the above secrets, replace them in the `secrets.yaml` file.
```

- You need an ingress controller for the GitHub Webhook to come through.

> - Please replace the `ingressClassName` and ingress domain or subdomain URL in the `github-webhook-ingress.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace the `ingressClassName` and ingress domain or subdomain URL in the `github-webhook-ingress.yaml` file.
```

- Make sure you create a GitHub webhook for the `Pull requests` events in the settings tab of the repo. Please add the previously created webhook secret and `<<ingress_url/hooks>>` as the Payload URL in the appropriate place when creating the webhook.

### Installation
- Once you are ready with the above steps, please use the below command to apply the YAML files.
```sh
sh deploy.sh
```

> - Congrats! You have successfully configured everything. You will see a status has been posted for the Tekton runs whenever a new PR gets created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Congrats! You have successfully configured Tekton CI pipeline for Go Tracer. You will see a status posted in Github for the Tekton runs, whenever a new PR is created.
```

## How to debug/re-run a pipeline run

- You will find the Tekton dashboard URL for a specific pipeline run from the `details` section of the commit status.

> -You can access the dashboard once you have set up and authenticated the cluster in your local and using the `kubectl proxy` command.  How to do this using IBM Cloud, you can see the documentation [here](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-access_cluster#access_public_se) for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can access the Tekton dashboard if you had set up the `ibmcloud` cli and authenticated the cluster in your local machine, by using the `kubectl proxy` command. For detailed information on accessing the IBM Cloud cluster via `ibmcloud` cli, you can refer to this [documentation](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-access_cluster#access_public_se).
```

> - You can see the logs or re-run the pipeline run once you have access to the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once you have access to the dashboard, you can see the logs for each run and will be able to re-run the `PipelineRun` .
```

> - You will see that the statuses in the PR will update once you initiate a re-run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The status of the Tekton CI pipeline run for the PR will be updated once you initiate a re-run.
```
